hi guys we're going to have some fun
today because we'll be making clam
chowder take a look gorgeous it has
everything in it has the corn bacon it
has celery just everything cream base
clam chowder you're watching the bear
pantry show the first thing we do that
you're going to need of course are going
to be clams and you can use the stuff
that's in the can like this but I don't
want to do that I want to make it from
fresh clams so I went to the store and I
bought four pounds right here it's about
eight something for four pounds and
we're going to need a piece of
cheesecloth or if you don't have this
use paper towel we're going to need a
brush and I stiff brush to clean it with
and I bought a new one because I don't
know what the kids use my brush to clean
in the kitchen okay because I got some
brushes in here that I tell them it's
only for fruits and vegetables but I
don't know what they do with it so I
bought a new one so now let me dump the
sound in the bowl so here there are it's
quite a few and the first thing that you
need to know is they need to just smell
like the salty ocean if they smell kind
of funky like fish going bad don't buy
them okay so I had Joe sniff a motor in
the stores your cell so we're going to
pour some cold water on this and let it
sit for about a half hour
alright so this is my second roll around
and just brushing it literally well
what you know that clam chowder is not
hard at all to make but it's one of
those recipes that's going to take a lot
of little steps all right so you just
going to have to have some patience but
in the end it's going to be so worth it
let's start off first of all with what
we're going to need so of course we
start off with clams and we're also
going to be needing some potatoes I have
a huge onion hair if you have small and
ends uses small M use two small ones
we're going to need all purpose flour
butter of course you see celery bacon
strips I have four pieces of bacon heavy
whipping cream this is not half and half
and some kernel corn in the can and you
can delete any of these things that you
don't like alright so we're going to
start off first of all by cutting the
bacon into bite-sized pieces because we
want to prepare this to get it cooked in
a skillet or right we're going to also
put the celery in bite-sized pieces I
happen to personally not like celery so
I'm not going to use a whole lot of it
but you can put more according to your
taste and we're also going to dice up
the onion and look I dice up kind of
funny I just going to peel the onion and
go on both sides and then I kind of turn
it on its side and cut my little dices
that's just the easiest way I've ever
you know tried doing onions and I don't
cry when I cut onions I don't know
what's wrong with me cuz you know i
think you should be crying when you cut
onions and I've peeled the potatoes and
washed and clean and I'm going to dice
them into bite-size pieces right here
because we wanted to go into the soup
you know in bite-size pieces that you
can serve so I start off by putting the
bacon in a hot skillet and we're just
going to cook this on low and just allow
this to cook until it's really really
crispy all right meanwhile I have a soup
pot going to the halfway mark with some
water and I want it to boil a little bit
hotter than this before actually drop
the clams in there right and look at my
stuff that's waiting for me my onions
celery and potatoes now all that stuff
to do is to check on our bacon so this
is good I so let's get this from the pan
alright so I'm going to put them in with
this hot spoon okay because I don't want
to get burned by this hot water so
that's two three ten got quite a bit now
the reason that we're putting it in this
hot water to boil is because that's
going to open them up and also we're
going to be making our clam juice for
the other part of our sewer supine it's
time to remove the clamps from the water
I've shut off the stove already and they
open up nicely for me they took about
eight minutes you don't want to cook
them too long okay because if the clams
get overcooked they get kind of rubbery
and I'm removing them with this skimmer
look one escape from the shell you know
what the shells look kind of pretty they
look like you can make a jewelry box or
something out of them so Joe I had asked
me when I started making the video how
we're going to get the clams open and I
told the hot water will open them so
look at that huh so I'm using the water
that the clams were boiled in to make
the clam juice and i'm using a ladle to
just dip the water out of the pot and
put it through this cheese clock if you
don't have cheesecloth use a piece of
paper towel reason I'm doing that is
because I don't want any sand if any
escape off of the shells you know if it
escaped it would settle on the bottom of
the pot I don't want any of that to get
in my juice so now I'm over to my
skillet I didn't put any butter in here
just a nonstick skillet and I've put in
the onion and I'm putting in the celery
and basically I'm just going to stir
this for a little while to make them get
kind of brown and you don't need any
butter if you're using nonstick okay so
now it's time to add our clam juice and
I'm going to be using all of this four
cups of clam juice and if you're using
clams from the can you would go ahead
and put water to the juice that's in the
clam and I put in the potatoes of course
and you want them to cook until the
potatoes are tender so here are the
clams I got them from the shell was
using a knife at first to cut him up but
it wasn't working so good so i use my
shears and now i'm adding three fourths
cup of butter i didn't tell you at the
beginning how much butter but it's three
quarter cups of butter
to my big pot I wash my pot that i
boiled the clams in and i'm just going
to allow it to melt and this is almost
done the potatoes the seller and onions
almost and you'll know it's done when
the potatoes are tender and to this
butter after its melted we're going to
add our flour because we're making a
room so adding in the flour a little bit
at a time and we're going to whisk you
want to move quickly at this part okay
because you don't want it to lump up on
you and of course if it does put it
through a strainer I'm going to use this
whole chord of heavy cream and if you're
watching your figure and stuff use half
heavy cream and half milk but i'm using
the whole thing because i want the
chowder to look like chowder nothing
upsets me more than when i get some type
of chowder and it's kind of soupy and
thin and not fake so just remember that
you don't want to eat this too often
okay if you're watching your cholesterol
and stuff like that so I'm just whisking
to make sure that there are no lumps in
my beautiful base right here and now I'm
spooning in the potatoes and the celery
and stuff from the other skillet we're
going to use everything okay even the
water but the reason I'm spooning it in
this is because I don't want to pour it
too quickly and it splatters and then I
get burned that's the main thing that I
try not to get burnt or cut what I'm in
the kitchen so now it's time to add our
clams and they're all diced up in small
pieces doesn't look like a lot but it
does go a long way in in this to you and
I'm just going to stir and watch it I
have it on medium heat and oh by the way
I forgot to tell you guys I'm going to
add my kernel corn right here and you
don't have to put the corn if you don't
want to and even when it comes to the
bacon you can just save the bacon and
put it on top when you serve a bowl of
this the clams the clam chowder so put
it in you don't want this to go for more
than five minutes this is going to
reduce down reason why you're watching
it so closest because you don't want the
clams to get rubbery like i said before
okay so it's going to reduce down and
i'll take a look thick beautiful
gorgeous smells good piping hot now it's
just ready for a bowl or ready for a
bread bowl awesome huh check it out guys
see beautiful nice and thick isn't it no
you guys want some of this try this all
right it's not too hard whew
eps but not too hard so this was awesome
you guys I can't wait for jay to the
invite calling that come over call it
come on over come get your clam chowder
and I'm so happy to eat this because
when I go to restaurants I never eat the
soup because always has a machine so I
never ate the soup so this I can mean
till the cows come home but i'm not
going to overdo because you remember we
use a lot of heavy cream all right but
here's my mole i want to taste and of
course you guys know okay before I taste
let me tell you guys you don't have to
put the kernel corn you won't have to
put the celery I don't like celery and
stuff I only put it in here because I
wanted to show you a more traditional
clam chowder but you'll definitely don't
have to put the things that you don't
like all right when it comes to the
bacon you can also garnish the top of
the big in but I like putting it inside
because to me it just tastes better to
get some pieces in there and also like i
said before i got jada sneaking up on me
trying to get my clam chowder guys like
i said before you can happen half the
the middle can be myself when we look at
this to look at you could like do have
heavy cream half milk so it's not so
rich and heavy all right but I mean how
often are you going to be eating this
all right so reversed I'm gonna want to
cooked it but I have to check it finish
poison so all of a sudden you have to
make sure you protect mommy yeah okay oh
if I fall did it song
it's too good for dinner bacon bacon
bacon bacon rude I got a bit of the corn
that tastes so good the sweet against
the briny taste of the clams and again
guys forgive me if I've been seeing
oysters because I don't know what I've
been saying the whole show i hope i've
been saying clams but i don't see it
till that final edit how is regina
anyone's the soul clams kinda remind me
of comes no the abalone so i suppose we
could make another one like this in the
future we will call it comes chowder
instead of com soup you know how belize
and have comes up through the clam so
good mmm I got corn I got clams bacon I
got potato and I got bacon in that bite
that I took just know it's so chunky and
beautiful and like I said at the end of
the video I'm gonna put one in a bread
bowl will see you guys can get a look at
that ok so you can serve it in a bowl
you can eat this with crackers you can
eat it with Bridget and eat it alone
it's definitely hardly so you can get
your belly full off of this and I've had
fun doing this I really have had fun
doing this joy helping with a lot of it
he video tape and he helped me cook up
some of the stuff as I was like she
ain't moving fast so enlist some help
with this one okay don't get in the
kitchen and be a martyr and do it all by
yourself guess money to help you cook
the bacon they can help you put the
clown the clams to boil they can have to
go a lot of the preparatory types of the
chopping up of the vegetables so gets
money to help you all right now as I
always hit and thank you so much for
your support I really do appreciate it I
appreciate you guys so much to take the
time to watch the shows all right and
the comments that you pass and I look
forward to answering your comments if
you liked the video hit like below James
believe somewhat you might just see
myself in you like a bigger hit light
below thank you for picking up my book
and until you see you guys again take
care
please check out my review channel right
here on YouTube is called bear foundry
talk also check out my vlog channel it's
called that's fair talk